APEX LEGENDS™: ARSENAL PATCH NOTES
Delve into the full patch notes for Arsenal including new legend Ballistic, Weapon Mastery, and updates to the Ping System.
NEW LEGEND: BALLISTIC

Before the Apex Games, a more brutal competition held sway: the Thunderdome Games! Here, sibling fighters Sok Leng and Kit Siang Phua reigned supreme. They were joined by August Brinkman, Sok Leng’s eventual husband. But when August’s selfish playstyle led to Kit Siang’s death, August would retreat from the Games, from Sok Leng, and from their young son, Nate.

August spent decades as a recluse. When Nate decides to follow his family’s legacy into the arena, August returns to strike a deal to reenter the Games in his son’s place.

PASSIVE: SLING

Store a third weapon in the sling. Access via inventory or Character Utility Action Button. The sling weapon cannot take attachments.

TACTICAL: WHISTLER

Shoots a projectile that heats up an enemy's gun as they shoot. Overheating causes damage. Hold the Tactical to lock-on.

ULTIMATE: TEMPEST

Nearby teammates get faster reloads, faster-armed move speed, and Infinite Ammo. The sling weapon will be upgraded to gold.

WORLD’S EDGE MAP UPDATE

Read the full breakdown of the new points of interest and other changes in our full blog here.

ARSENAL SEASON MAP ROTATION
The following maps will be available for public matchmaking in the Battle Royale mode:

World’s Edge
Olympus
Kings Canyon
RANKED UPDATE
Important TLDR:

New matchmaking by hidden skill rating, with skill adjustments made on premade sizes to account for the competitive advantages gained
New Scoring system that emphasizes winning the battle royale
New Bonus system that conditionally rewards wins and compensates losses
No more split reset, with a full seasonal reset started off with 10 provisional games
Ranked will now require account level 50 to play
Read the full breakdown of the new points of interest and other changes in our full blog here.

WEAPON MASTERY
Weapon Mastery is our first new long-term progression system outside of account level! As we look to make Apex Legends more approachable for new players, this system incentivizes learning about the strengths and character of all our weapons. The goal is to deepen player engagement across the board regardless of who you main or which mode you prefer.


At the season launch, all players will start with every weapon at level 1 and can start progressing their weapon levels by using them in any game mode. Having a weapon in hand, dealing damage, securing kills, and fighting with style will all generate Weapon XP for that weapon. Every 20 levels, a weapon-specific trial will unlock for you to test your skill with that weapon and reward you for completion. Get your weapon to level 100 and finish all five trials to fully “master” that weapon and earn the final rewards. Each weapon mastery track will earn players weapon-specific badges, lifetime performance trackers, legendary weapon mastery banner frames, and a Legendary Weapon Apex Pack for each weapon. 

FIRING RANGE UPDATES

Read the full breakdown of all the updates coming to Firing Range in our full blog here.

NEW SURVIVAL SLOT ITEM: EVAC TOWER
The Evac Tower is the latest loot item to hit the Outlands. This portable Jump Tower can shape the battlefield in your squad's favor by offering a quick escape or setting up a deadly assault. Harness the power of the skies, but be careful when you use it - players can destroy the Evac Tower and leave you high and dry!

PING SYSTEM UPDATES
Pings are the main method of non-verbal communication in Apex Legends, and coordination is the key to victory! This season, we’ve updated the system to better serve the game as it exists today. We’ve removed some Pings from the default Ping Wheel with lower usage rates, added several new pings, and added quality of life improvements to how pinging operates in game. Our goal is to give all players, especially those not using voice chat, access to some quick combat ‘phrases’ to help orient team action.


On the default Ping Wheel you will see 3 new pings:

Avoid Area
Enemy Audio
Regroup
You will also see an expanded set of options when you are Downed or in Dropship for the initial drop into the BR. 

Lastly, we’ve improved Pinging from the Map behaviors in the following ways: 

In-game objects that have map icons (Respawn Beacons, Crafters, Wildlife, etc) can now be Pinged from the map; creating accurate waypoints with callouts 
When pinging generic waypoints on the map they will have more accurate placement in World Space 
PATCH NOTES
BALANCE UPDATES
Crate Rotation

L-Star EMG enters the crate
RE-45 returns to the floor
Weapon Crafting Rotation

Alternator SMG enters the crafter
Sentinel enters the crafter
EVA-8 returns to the floor
30-30 Repeater returns to the floor
Gold Weapon Rotation

Flatline, Triple Take, Spitfire, Mastiff, Volt
Loot Spawns

Improved Vault Loot
Increased chances of gold loot
Added light mags to spawn pool
Improved Cargo Bot Loot
Removed small healing items, Mobile Respawn Beacon, White Armor,  White Backpack
Adjusted Large Healing and Heat Shield spawns to allow for more desirable loot spawns
Removed gold weapons from purple tier Cargo Bots but increased spawn chance in gold tier
WEAPONS
L-Star EMG [Crate]

Added Disruptor Rounds: 60% damage increase against shields
Base Damage Reduced to 16 (was 17)
Projectiles now have passthrough: 60% damage retained
Projectile growth increased
Improved recoil pattern
Removed barrel
Ammo Stockpile: 324
Reduced VFX brightness when hitting unarmored targets
30-30 Repeater

Projectile size increased when fully charged
Triple Take

Projectile size increased
Improved hipfire spread
Tightened bullet pattern when fully choked
Ammo per shot reduced to 1 (was 3)
Magazines sizes adjusted to match the new ammo costs
Purple Mag: Increased to 10 shots (was 9)
R-99 SMG

Removed 1 bullet from base and all magazines
No Magazine reduced to 19 (was 20)
White Magazine reduced to 21 (was 22)
Blue Magazine reduced to 24 (was 25)
Purple & Gold magazine reduced to 27 (was 28)
Charge Rifle

Reduced shots per magazine to 3 (was 4)
Reduced spawn rate
LEGENDS
Mirage

Class changed from Skirmisher to Support
Ash

Now gets slowed to weapon sprint speed instead of weapon walk speed when targeting with her tac
Assault Class

Smart loot gains have been adjusted to reduce skipping an upgrade tier
It will now be less likely to jump from White to Purple or Blue to Gold
Optics are now given based on team rather than just Assault Legend who opens them
Added special drop rate for Gold Optics
Skirmisher Class

Care packages are now automatically pinged for the team on reveal.
This includes empty Care Packages that have already been looted by another team
Support Class

Support Bins will now guarantee at least one Battery in one of the Secret Compartment slots
Support Bins will now award MRBs if your ally is dead, even if you don’t have their banner card.
Legend Banners can now be crafted by ANY player who has a Support Class Legend in their Squad
MIXTAPE
New Podium screens for Gun Run and Control
Display a message in the Kill Feed if Leaver Penalties are disabled for the match due to an unfair match
Control and Gun Run will indicate the team's MVPs on the intro podium
Control and TDM have updated loadouts (Crate Weapon changes and updates based on weapon meta/pick rates/kill rates)
Gun Run and TDM now have XP Bonuses for Match Completion and Match Completion after Join in Progress
Control

Map rotation: Barometer is out, Olympus: Hammond Labs is in
Weapon Evo Change: No longer Evo weapons automatically when a new Rating Tier is reached. Players now reach the new tier and their weapon will Evo when the player holsters and then unholsters their weapon in any form (reload, weapon switch, manual holster, rides a zipline, performs a skydive, etc)
Gun Run 

Weapon Track update for new crate weapons.
Added an additional XP bonus on the last weapon knife kill
Team Deathmatch

Map rotation: Skulltown is out, Phase Runner is in
BUG FIXES
Prowler: fixed ADS while crouching
IMC Armories: fixed spectres taking too much damage from arc stars
Fixed Duos showing NBR challenges instead of BR challenges
Fixed comms wheel not being usable when a game is over
Fixed players glitching inside of loot bins
Fixed spectators not receiving audio queues for all types of launch pads/jump pads
Fixed flickering of banners during victory and end of match screens
Scoreboard is saved when a game is finished now, not post-podium sequence
Lifetime Stats numbers no longer overlap for more than 7 digits
Various lobby ultrawide UI improvements
LEGENDS
Ash: 
Steps are no longer louder if heirloom is equipped
Fixed UI loop when crouch inspect is canceled early
Ultimate will now persist for the entire duration even if Ash dies while it is active and while players are still traveling through it
Bloodhound: White Ravens already in flight can no longer be scanned for free Tacticals and Ult charge
Caustic: Fixed traps destroying when placed near closed doors that are then opened
Crypto: 
Drone can no longer be accessed after being knocked
Drone no longer occasionally teleports behind a wall after you throw it
Fixed drone sometimes spawning in the middle of the world when thrown into a wall
Loba: 
Fixed visibility issue with Black Market when Bangalore’s smoke is behind
Amount head peeks over cover while crouching adjusted to match other Legends
Mad Maggie: Improved reliability when hitting objects that the ball will damage or destroy
Octane: Removed the double jump hint from the Launch Pad in cases where it would incorrectly show as an option (e.g. after a Pathfinder grapple)
Rampart: multiple cover walls can no longer be placed in the same spot on a Trident
Seer: Dummies in the firing range will now have the same footstep behavior as other players when moving inside of Seer’s Ultimate instead of behaving like other AI (Prowlers, Spiders)
Valkyrie: Ultimate cooldown no longer set to 75% after being canceled while in Death Totem protection
Wraith: 
Fixed ultimate being usable while ziplining
Mythic finisher “Whiplash” no longer pushes players outside of play area
MODES
Mixtape
Fixed shields dropped by killed enemies being empty
Fixed players leaving a match will no longer try to join the same match if its join-in-progress window is still active
Team Deathmatch
Fixed grenades not dropping on player death
Fixed Estates map image displaying the night variant of the map in the Lobby
Control
Fixed Custom Match Observer issue where it was difficult to close the Map Screen if an Observer had it opened before players spawned in the match
Fixed teammates death icon not appearing on the map if the map wasn't open when the teammate died
Fixed ordnance not auto-equipping to the ordnance slot if the player spawned out of bounds
Fixed reserve ammo counter not displaying when switching weapons from Rampart or Vantage's ultimate ability
QUALITY OF LIFE UPDATES
Removed Auto-Taunt Prompt on Enemy Killed
Can now ride ziplines while playing the banner pickup animation
Bullet impact VFX on snow reduced
LIVEAPI IMPROVEMENTS AND DOCUMENTATION
This season will have some updates to the LiveAPI based on player and developer feedback. These include improvements to existing functionality and messages, new events, and extensive additions to documentation including some examples in Python.

Support for Secure WebSockets (WSS) server connections
Configurable SSL verification, to allow self-signed certificates
Request validation through pre-shared key mechanism that can be specified through `cl_liveapi_requests_psk`
Newly added game event broadcast delay that affects only real-time WebSocket connections, configurable through `cl_liveapi_ws_event_delay` 
Additional documentation and snippets added to events.proto file
Includes sample values, code snippets in Python and expected API behavior
Change for API request acknowledgements not behaving as intended
Introduction of the RequestStatus message for more detailed explanations
Fix for 4KB message payload truncation seen mostly when using JSON data format
Fix for PlayerRevive event where the revived player field was incorrectly typed as a string instead of a Player message
New WarpGateUsed and ObserverAnnotation events
Downgrade of most uint64 fields to uint32 to ensure serialization as numbers and not strings in JSON
All timestamp fields remain as uint64. Developers should take note when using JSON data format instead of Protobuf.
More information, including technical documentation, can be found in the LiveAPI folder at the root of the game installation.